updated Dashboard, Pivot EUD 20.1 (#107)
DevExpress/dotnet-eud: dashboard-for-web/articles/web-dashboard-designer-mode/providing-data/dashboard-data-source-wizard/specify-data-source-settings-json.md

---
title: Specify Data Source Settings (JSON)
author: Margarita Zakhodyaeva
---
# Specify Data Source Settings (JSON)

## Select an Existing Data Connection

The following page appears if you select JSON on the start page. Select an existing connection from the list. 

![](../../../../images/web-dashboard-data-source-wizard-json.png)

Click **Next** to proceed to the [Select Data Fields](#select-data-fields) page.

## Create a New Data Connection

Select a new data connection on the following page and click **Next**.

![](../../../../images/dashboard-data-source-wizard-create-data-connections.png)

## Configure a New Data Connection

On the next page, configure a new data connection:

![](../../../../images/dashboard-data-source-wizard-configure-data-connections.png)

Specify the connection name and select the JSON source type.

### Web Service Endpoint (URI)

> A URL to a file in the JSON format. You can also specify the Web Service Endpoint's request parameters (username and password, HTTP headers, or query parameters).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A URL to a file in JSON format. You can also specify the Web Service Endpoint's request parameters (username and password, HTTP headers, or query parameters).
```

![](../../../../images/web-dashboard-json-datasource-parameters.png)

- A **path parameter** appends a path element to a JSON endpoint's Uri.

> - A **query parameter** specifies a HTTP request parameter that is passed to a JSON endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A **query parameter** specifies an HTTP request parameter that is passed to a JSON endpoint.
```

> - A **header** is a custom HTTP header of JSON endpoint requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A **header** is a custom HTTP header in JSON endpoint requests.
```

You can use expressions to specify path parameters, query parameter values, and headers.

> Click the **F** icon  to switch the **Value** option to **Expression Editor** and click **...**  to invoke the editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the **F** icon  to switch the **Value** option to **Expression Editor** and click the ellipsis button (**...**)  to invoke the editor.
```

![](../../../../images/web-dashboard-wizard-json-parameters-expression-editor-f-icon.png)

Double-click the expression in the invoked Expression Editor and click **OK**.

![](../../../../images/web-dashboard-wizard-json-parameters-expression-editor.png)

An expression can include [dashboard parameters](../../data-analysis/dashboard-parameters.md). 

> [!Tip]

> > Refer to the [Creating Parameters](../../data-analysis/dashboard-parameters/creating-parameters.md) topic for more information how to create a dashboard parameter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Refer to the following help topic for details on how to create a dashboard parameter [Creating Parameters](../../data-analysis/dashboard-parameters/creating-parameters.md). 
```

Select the **Fields** section in the Expression Editor, double-click the predefined dashboard parameter, and click **OK**.

![](../../../../images/web-dashboard-wizard-json-parameters-expression-editor-select-dashboard-parameters.png)

> Path parameters and query parameters are included in endpoint requests in the same order as they are listed. Move a parameter up or down in the list to change its position in endpoint requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Path parameters and query parameters are included in endpoint requests in the order in which they are listed. Move a parameter up or down the list to change its position within an endpoint request.
```

> The read-only **Resulting URI** field displays the resulting JSON URI.

Reviewer: Can you clarify what you mean by "resulting JSON URI"? Is it a newly generated JSON URI (as a result of the above actions)?

![](../../../../images/web-dashboard-data-source-wizard-json-resulting-uri.png)

> Configure the basic HTTP authentication credentials and click **Next** to proceed to the [Select Data Fields](#select-data-fields) page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure basic HTTP authentication credentials and click **Next** to proceed to the [Select Data Fields](#select-data-fields) page. 
```

### JSON String

>  A string that contains JSON data. You can also use the Upload JSON button to load content from the selected JSON file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 A string that contains JSON data. You can also use the **Upload JSON** button to load content from the selected JSON file.
```
